Dear Dr Damian-Serrano,
We have now reached a decision on the above manuscript. 
To see the reviewers' reports and a copy of this decision letter, please go to: View Reviewer Comments
 
As you will see, the reviewers gave favourable reports but raised some critical points that will require amendments to your manuscript.  
Both reviewers (and I) appreciate the extensive revisions based on the first round of reviews.  However, there still remain a considerable number of areas needed revision.  The reviewers provide clear and constructive feedback about which areas need additional work.  I also emphasize the need to be clear about sample sizes (N, n, df, test statistics) when reporting the statistical results.  Also, there appears to be a misconception by the authors about why phylogenetic comparative methods are used.  The most crucial reason is to address the non-independence of data points when species are more or less closely related (independence of data points is required of all the statistics used in this manuscript).  Please fix that section of the manuscript and clearly state how violating the rule of non-independence of data points may have influenced your statistics-based findings.  Or, include a phylogeny and perform the statistics correctly using appropriate statistical methods.  Please make sure to plot all data points on the box plots (data transparency requirement of JEB).  Lastly, I encourage the authors to upload their R code to accompany the data spreadsheet.  The code would further enhance the replicability of the study.
Provided you are able to fully address the reviewers' comments, we hope you won't mind the extra work involved in revising your manuscript and adhering to our formatting instructions below.
Please ensure that you clearly highlight all changes made in the revised manuscript. Please avoid using 'Track changes' in Word files as these are lost in PDF conversion.
I would be grateful if you would also list how you have dealt with the points raised by the editor and reviewers in the 'Response to Reviewers' box. Please attend to all of the editor's and reviewers’ comments. If you do not agree with any of their criticisms or suggestions please explain clearly why this is so.
In order to promote timely publication, we generally ask that the revision be completed within 90 days from the date of this letter. However, we recognise that this may not always be possible so we will be happy to grant an extension where this is needed: please just contact the Editorial Office. 
I look forward to receiving your revised manuscript.
With best wishes,
S. Patek
Handling Editor
----------------------------
Comments from the Reviewers:
Reviewer 1: Damian-Serrano et al have considered a comparison of swimming and metabolic-rate measurements across numerous species of salp to address a hypothesis that differences in swimming speed are driven by frontal area differences between different colony formations. I reviewed an earlier version of this manuscript and find this version to be a great improvement. However, I still have number of suggestions for improving the presentation of this work. Most importantly, the statistical analysis requires greater transparency in its presentation in the methods and through reporting of sample size in the Results.
SPECIFIC COMMENTS
(Line numbers are the ones on the right)
L45 - Given the hypothesis, seems like you'd want to see how COT scales with frontal area too.
L49 - The statement about "due to their differential advantage in frontal area scaling" is in interpretation is written in the tone of an observation. Given the evidence, I think it would be more appropriate to say sometime like "We found that linear colonies generally swim faster, which supports the idea that . . ."
L63 - Maybe "drawing" and "ejecting" instead of "inhaling" and "exhaling"?
L91 - I think Alexander and Vogel only makes sense as a citations if they offered a unique statement about drag in salps, which may be the case. They are not really strong sources on the origins of drag.
L139 - Nothing against Vogel, but there many options in the primary literature, and reviews, to support this statement, which would more directly point to the source of the information.
L168 - The statement about "scaling drive disparities between colonial architectures" is important because it articulates a major aim of the study. So, I recommend using more precise language: disparities in what respect?
I believe JEB requires that you provide the location of manufacturers.
I do not think Eqns. 1 and 2 are necessary, but fine to include.
L288 - Readers may wonder why dried mass was not selected as the means of normalizing the metabolic measurements by animal size, given the presumably large volume of these gelatinous organisms that is not comprised of living tissue. Isn't it possible that differences in the measurements could be due to differences in the proportion of metabolically-active tissue. A concise mention of these considerations would be helpful.
L323 - This section requires a more expansive description of the statistical analysis. What particular linear models? Which continuous variables, in particular? How are repeated measures taken into account? I'm not sure if testing relative to a zero slope makes sense (vs. comparing regressions between species), but I am not sure what variables are being referenced here.
Sample sizes should be reported in the Results. It should be made clear when p-values are reported what the sample sizes are. Supplemental tables and mention in the methods is insufficient.
Fig. 5 - zooids/pulse — Does this mean zooid length/pulse? Perhaps this could be phrased more specifically?
L408-415 - These details should be offered in the Methods.
L439 - Paragraphs should be 3 or more sentences.
L442-446 - Run on sentence.
L479 - size, by what metric?
Please cite the results supporting all of the statements of findings in the Discussion. This appears more towards the end of the Discussion than at the beginning.
L497 - There is no such thing as a "less hydrodynamic configuration." L603 Says "highly hydrodynamic forms". These are misuses of the term "hyrodynamic". By analogy, one would not say that one animal is more mechanical than another.
L631-634 - I do not follow the logic of the co-evolution of traits as reason for a phylogenetic analysis as being inappropriate. This merits a more clear explanation or perhaps it is a non-essential point that could be avoided.
Reviewer 2: The primary aim of the paper is to determine what effect, if any, the architectures of salps colonies have on the swimming speed and metabolic costs of the organisms. The stated motivation for the work is to provide insight into bio-inspired designs, such as for underwater vehicles.
The authors' experimental measurements of difficult-to-obtain quantities and their contribution to the body of knowledge regarding salps are impressive. They have also made a conscious effort to clarify and strengthen many points, which indicates a desire to be clear, open, and honest in their reporting. Below I have tried to balance recognition of the enormous challenges involved in obtaining the data and the limited number of available data points for analysis with gauging the appropriateness of the strength of the claims.
There are two main outstanding issues of the paper as I read it. First is the number of predictions and expectations in the introductory part of the paper, which tend to take away from rather than strengthen the main hypotheses. The second is a claim of a causal relationship based on indirect rather than direct evidence. It's possible these questions/issues could be addressed within the current architecture of the paper.
Statement of hypotheses. The introduction contains at least 12 expectations/predictions (Lines 84, 85, 90, 91, 98, 102, 106, 129, 137, 142, 146, 158, 162.) The last paragraph (Lines 309-318) of the introduction states that the following will be studied: how swimming speed varies with the number of propellers and whether there are differences in frontal scaling drive [which?] disparities between architectures, assessing how cost of transport varies, and how COT varies with swimming speed and pulsation effort.
Is one or more of these the main hypothesis of the paper? Many measurements are made and many tests run, but they don't seem to address a single (or maybe two) clearly stated question or line of inquiry. This may be in part due to the fact that there is limited data in some cases, so there may be a desire to present the case from many different angles. And I think the paper does have an intention (see below), but the number of side predictions obscures it. I suggest moving the predictions/expectations to the discussion as part of the analysis if they support the central thesis while leaving the introduction clear to lay the groundwork for the primary aim. If the authors feel the predictions lay this ground work, they may have a different notion of how to tighten the focus.
Statement of causal relationships. If a clear purpose were to be identified, it appears to be the main result from the abstract which reads (Lines 49-53): "We found that linear colonies generally swim faster due to their differential advantage in frontal area scaling with an increasing number of zooids." I agree with the findings to an extent, but the cause is less clear. The qualifier on lines 525-542 acknowledges that there may be confounding factors, but the strength of the statement in the abstract belies that notion.
Focusing on Figure 5 A for example, I agree that this shows linear colonies tend to swim faster as the number of zooids increases when only considering linear colonies. However, it would be a strong statement to state that linear colonies swim faster than bipinnate and helical as number of zooids grow (line 503) based on these data because 1) there is only one helical specimen and 2) that pattern is not necessarily clear in the range where you have data for all three types of specimens, and you only have linear specimens in the region where you see a clear increase in speed on the right.
In figure 5 B, there is a similar concern with the oblique data point, but also the gap in colony numbers for the cluster data is concerning. Ignoring the point on the right, there appears to be an upward trend in swimming speed, even if more slight than the left. This could indicate the right-hand point is an outlier, or there is likely a non-monotonic relationship between swimming speed and a number of colonies in some of the architectures. This means there is possibly a region where larger frontal areas swim as fast or faster than architectures with lower frontal areas. The data presented here neither confirm nor deny this.
Questions about data comparison:
*In table S1, there is a lot of variation in the mean length of zooids between species. Is there a lot of variation within a species? It might be appropriate to report the standard deviation.
*I couldn't open/find the Dataset S1, so this might have been addressed already. There is some discussion about the 2D versus stereo measurements and that the 2D measurements gave slower speeds. I didn't see that it was specified which species were measured with which apparatus. Using obtainable footage is reasonable, especially when the specimens are hard to collect/track/find. But if speed is a primary part of the argument, it should be obvious where the differences in speed measurements lie.
Minor things:
*It might be more appropriate to refer to these as all of the known architectures throughout rather than all of the architectures unless it is definitively known that no other configurations are possible.
*Different marker point shapes would make the graphs more color-/resource accessibility friendly. The results would be hard to discern for someone with a different color perception or who can only access a black-and-white copy. Similarly, using different striping patterns on bar charts would make the graphs more accessible. This might be something for the publisher to address.